# Ingestion of Common Microplastics by Hemigrapsus oregonensis in a Combined Diet versus Isolated Particles

Microplastics (plastic particles <5mm in size) are a growing concern in marine conservation and ecology. Understanding the impacts of microplastics is crucially important for properly managing and conserving a species in the future. This project aims to identify the impacts of microplastics on the hairy shore crab, Hemigrapsus oregonensis, by testing the oxygen uptake and accumulation of microplastics in tissues of the crabs. We hypothesize that exposure to microplastics will result in microplastic accumulation in the gut and gills of the crabs, decreasing oxygen uptake. To do this, we isolated 18 crabs in individual jars with mesh lids, grouped into fed and unfed groups. Fed groups were given mussel meat and microplastics at the start of the experiment, while the unfed group was given only microplastics. Microplastics were created by filing down recycled bottle caps, aiming to simulate mixed plastics in polluted coastal ecosystems. We experienced very high mortality over the course of the experiment, associated with hypoxic conditions in individual containers. No microplastics were found accumulated in crab tissues, potentially caused by the microplastics floating, becoming inaccessible to the crabs. The single surviving crab in the fed group was found to have lower lactate levels than the surviving unfed group members, potentially due to the lack of starvation stress on the fed crab. While constricted in their application, these findings act as both a pilot study for future work, as well as an implying that low density, hard plastic may be less impactful on shore crabs than denser, softer materials such as tire tread.
